A story -
A person wants to learn Hebrew. He opens a book and starts reading. After 2-3 lines he stops. He walks a bit. Comes back, Thinks. Then eats. Keeps the book open for hours. Again next day he opens the books and doesn’t do anything but eat chips and apples. What is he doing? Can you tell? - His brain is creating necessary neural connections to get prepare for the reading. He doesn’t know Hebrew. This means the complexity of
looking at words and sounds, and facing a new way
Maybe the book or the ink on paper or just the paper
Maybe his brain has still something other to process
Handling anxiety for future troubles with Hebrew
And a lot more we wouldn’t know being processed
We do not even know how many parts of our brain get triggers to process how many things just when we see some ink in a new book
1

Basic Terms:
Force Learning: One of the simple things we don’t know about learning and making life hell, you don’t have to learn by telling yourself to learn. Apparently, learning happens automatically. When our brain takes an input, it creates certain things in us. This ‘technical process’ is overly simplified by calling it learning. If the first part is perception, at least we can call the last part of that ‘technical process’ learning but it is so unconscious happening that our brain faces two major issue,

It can’t start learning without processing the previously learned information for a specific topic.
It has no idea what it is learning as learning is unconscious and can’t be recognized by the brain part that takes the order. The order-taking brain can’t point \ associate \ name it by the word ‘learning’ with any command at all. Violating a natural rule - unconscious process can’t be named.

We can consciously understand the prior part of the process ‘Perception’ but not the last part ‘Learning’ where neural connection happens. That not only confuses the brain but in a stressful or serious situation like telling yourself to learn ping pong, tic tac, Pac man or programming or even from books causes serious trauma and damage to the brain. In a new environment where a child is processing every new thing is even pressured to learn from books. There are a or two words I will talk about why a book is dangerous.

Reality Gaps:-
Let's imagine a scenario, where there are 20 pots to fill to accomplish a learning (of course there are countless gaps to fill to learn a thing. But this is to make it easier to understand)
Let’s call 15 of the pots are reality pots. When we read a thing in a book or see in a movie or see other people doing it, our brain starts processing it, starts filling all the pots but can’t fill all the reality pots until we do it ourselves. What the brain does is create excessive pressure to fill the unfulfilled gaps (you can call it desire, interest, question etc). Which keeps generating subconscious tension non-stop.

Unverified Learning:-
Let’s say, someone, reading a chunk of a book but not performing the described action in real life is creating pain in the head (Let’s say in the childhood) in the beginning. As it goes intolerable at some point, the brain feels these gaps or answers those questions with essenfial informations. Which are not accurate. How not accurate? It pressurizes to understand the unknown things with stereotypical bias and wrongful imaginations (stereotypical in psychology). Deep down if the brain feels they are unverified and feels bad about it, it may create unprocessed trauma.

The Paradox of Unlearning:-
This is when the thought processing of unlearning comes to the mind. Growing up and exposed to real things, we have to unlearn those not so accurate gazillion essential pieces of informations. When we already learned in a painful way, we are tired, unlearning all of them becomes somewhat impossible to handle. Such unlearning happens for decades after passing decades of learning those things. Most of the time even the unlearning is wrong and also has to unlearn that at some point. At this point, we become the broken people, damaged inside. My intention is not to talk about broken people. This may feel like some extreme cases but actually normal and we don’t remember all the pains at all. It happens to everyone. When a brain fills with unreal, distorted imagination it creates an unreal world for the person. The pain is Unverified Learning Anxiety

Unverified Learning Anxiety:
There are three parts of ‘Unverified Learning Anxiety’,
One is - filling the reality gaps with distorted imaginative reality.
Two is - a subconscious part will always know this is not real and will create conflict.
Three is - the person grows, he is constantly moving forwards to a fake reality. The real reality he would perceive has to be changed to support his/her fake reality.

Skippism in Learning:
Right now, there is something sadder about unverified learning anxiety - and that is most people are suffering from it. Once, we don’t know how to skip and ditch the spontaneous eagerness of filling the gap of reality. Then it is too bad that suddenly most people who learn fast, learn to skip the anxiety of filling those reality gaps with unverified information as one learns it is impossible to avoid learning anxiety. This is skippism of learning.

Perfect Stereotypical Generation:-
This skippism is the enemy of knowledge and critical thinking. In a general environment (Let’s say in school, home or anywhere), the kids face the whole phenomena of unverified learning anxiety and become the master of skippism and we create the perfect stereotypical generations with less and less feeling of questioning their own understanding.

Giving up to the Hormones: In the extreme scenarios (which is normal), they even stop listening to, stop caring, and stop trying to understand what’s being said by the teachers or others. Even skips understanding of what they read by themselves. Only thing they care about is when their biological triggers run or in some past beautiful day something they did the right way and felt caring and thus built a connection to care about just only for that.

Tragedy Of The Stereotypes:
But then the forceful nature of reality comes in front. Once they had to grow up and take care of themselves and their families and had to learn to do something they were never prepared for. Helplessly they follow what is stereotypical. They do what is in front of them. They do what is basic. This is the tragedy of the stereotypes.

Masters of Skippism:
See when your kids ask too many questions and we just keep waiting for the day they will stop. We are actually waiting for the day they will be the masters of skippism.

And then we blame those failed little humans for not doing enough for you silly parents. All those bored kids who find nothing interesting to be invested in.

Learning Boredom
What do you feel when you are not interested? Simply bored! bored! All the bored people skip the anxiety and find less of them through their distorted senses.This ego thing is what drives them until they are broke searching for what's wrong. Usually, the highly motivated ones ditch the boredom, and keep distorting their sense of reality by continuing Force Learning.

Force Learning:
Whatever we do naturally goes into our brain. We don’t have to put extra force to learn. It’s spontaneous always. When you sit to learn Maths, weren’t you learning before sitting there. You are learning all the time. You don’t have to ask your brain to learn. Simply, it can’t understand what it is to do for the word ‘learning’ and can’t associate this word with anything. Simply can’t process the order consciously. But since we ask, it is Force Learning. Asking your brain to learn means filling the reality gap for the word ‘learning’ or command ‘learn’ with more biased data after feeling the extreme pain of suffering. But not everyone is smart enough to catch the anxiety issues.

Illusion of being okay:
Unless we get a scenario to judge we don’t see the problems going on with our brain consciously. We are in an illusion of being okay even when we are not. The problem of being on Autonomous Nervous System takes control because of wrongfully thinking of being okay for a long time.

If you search ‘fight, flight and freeze’, you will see our brain creates a chain of actions when we are in a stressful, dangerous situation. The result is to pump you up with adrenaline so that you can face the danger and save yourself. It makes you strong, puts more stress on you to use more effort than you normally can provide for you.

Once you tell your kid to learn, otherwise his life will be a hell? Isn’t it a danger to live a life like hell? Yes, it is. So, it does pump him with adrenaline motivations. What if you and your family try to remind him that very often? What if more stressful situations are going on at the same time that also aren’t so acute? Acute means if there is a real danger in front of you and adrenaline pumps up. It is okay. What if it’s not in front of you, but inside your brain? This is unhealthy stress.

Danger to Own Life:
What if you constantly remind your kid, he is terrible? You make him a danger to himself. What if you want him to be better? He will still think of him as a danger to his own life because he isn’t enough for himself yet. That turns on adrenaline constantly.

Reliving the Stress:
When a stressful situation happens regularly, humans get on an Autonomous Nervous System. That keeps you on adrenaline all the time. Even if no one reminds him of the problem anymore, he will keep reminding him and live through it. What is wrong with that?

Stress is the mother of all mental illness. To my knowledge disorders are just different form of anxiety
It shrinks your brain dramatically too much and that brain doesn't perform well enough to live a life.
It removes many neurons, memory and useful neural connections that made up a human.
Your nerves get destroyed and you can't perform well in not just stressful situations but even in normal situations anymore. It’s called burned out. You stop living your life and have to resign all your previous personal improvements.
Nerve damage means damaging the flow of your body and get malfunctional. Feeling unusual things that aren’t there and more horrible things.
Ever heard of The Elephant Rope? It means what an elephant learned as a kid, very likely it will believe in it for all of its life. To some degree humans live like their childhood too. Like always being stressed out could be a trend in your kid to follow. Showing themselves strong and not vulnerable are very common for abused kids. That Autonomous Nervous System keeps it on for years. For what I have seen, till mid twenty is very common among many of my students. So when they finally try to understand life, it’s too late and can’t escape the weakness, anxiety and hallucinations.
It hurts physically in the long run. IBS is the most common disease that happens because of stress that makes life hell for 3 out of 4 people.
In autonomic means the four steps of mild, moderate, severe and panic are constantly happening on different different triggers and surrounding life with the fire of anxiety all the time. Creating new and new trigger actions.

The Parallel Threads:
A better way to understand this is the parallel thread or multi-thread idea (Similar to computer science). A brain can do 4-6 things at a time consciously and even unconsciously. Every time autonomous nervous system starts because of constant stress, it starts a thread that keeps running forever as a task (like a task running in the background of a computer). Moreover, a stress thread is actually a thread of fear and anxiety. I am not sure how many of those threads we can handle at a time, but we do a lot. So, many threads can run as many constant stressors at the same time. Usually, unconscious thread turns on only when there is a sign of threat. But when you forcefully tell your brain to keep more threads to run consciously, it is a huge stress of keeping the stress threads running. This is a chain of anxiety to keep more anxiety. Trying to do this as a style and to look cool, there are a big chunk of young people who fall for the Stress Trend or obsessive stress taker.

So coming back to the main story, You keep forcing your brain because you are not learning great. You keep telling your brain to learn but it’s not understanding what to do. Because your parents and teacher asked you to work harder on learning. So you keep forcing but your brain still doesn’t know what to do better. It keeps changing the idea of learning and keeps pressing itself and creates heavy learning anxiety.

The Dilemma of Force Learning:
After getting hours of lectures from parents, getting positive reinforcement or rewards, fear of punishment, greed of job, salary and beautiful spouse, putting enormous pressure on the brain, trying to be ultra serious, trying to stay on adrenaline all the time, all excitement in the world and still you can’t figure out how to improve in study. It’s not your fault and not a matter of your iq. You are in the Dilemma of Force Learning. Simply because the concept of learning you have is totally wrong.

Failure Anxiety:
I will try to give a clear concept of learning throughout this book. You see, when you ask your kid to improve and they are trying but not happening. So you kept pressuring and the kid is trying not to fail. This is creating huge failure anxiety.

You create failure anxiety that even stops them doing anything because they don’t want to feel the pain of failing. Once you stop understanding their attempt and they feel like you don’t understand what’s going on with them. So, you keep misbehaving and they feel you are a bad person and start misbehaving with you too.

Acute skipping and let go:
We skip ahead understanding something that's not in the topic of our discussion. Our brain uses a small part of it called the prefrontal cortex to create attention and ignore other stuff. That’s acute skipping. Since it uses a little part of our brain, it can’t solve a lot of problems or a big complex problem. Sometimes it can't understand a simple thing.That’s why we need to give it a break.

Anxiety Skipping:-

Acute Learning Threads:
When we take a break from that topic and do other things, our brain creates an unconscious thread until it understands that topic and uses a lot of the brain power, not just that little prefrontal part. It is acute dissatisfaction and healthy tension or Acute Learning Anxiety.

The Learning Effort and Learning philosophy chain:
We will talk about Learning Philosophy later. For now, imagine two pots, one is effort and another is philosophy. Anything we learn stays in the effort pot. Effort pot gets filled easily, it can’t take more. After certain times the brain generates concepts or stereotypes or bias (we will talk about it later too), what I call it is Learning Philosophy and moving things in the philosophy pot and emptying the effort pot. That means the learning becomes part of you in this stage. So, next time you learn those things again, you already know what you learned before and can move towards more advanced stuff to learn on that topic.

From The Garden Story:
Since we were born, we learn a lot of things the right way. It takes 1-2 years of our life to start taking orders from people or self before we inhabit unhealthy learning techniques. So, usually we are trained to learn the right way. More, we don’t remember much of how we learned, there is very little pattern for us there to analyze consciously.

But when you grow up. Say in 5-10 years of your life, you did learn something you loved in the right way. Let’s say it’s gardening.

How school begins:
How to make your kid believe what you say? Use the elephant rope - like the two steps from my childhood. One how my parents wanted me to stay home and two I learned to believe how staying home is the right choice for life.

Look, I know these things because I work with these kinds of kids. I try to sympathize with them, talk with their parents. Show them a path but they hardly understand me. Two of the kids are always ultra serious and can’t even handle any kind of talk about them. Everyone thinks they are the worst. What I see is that they are the most effortful. It’s hard to see abuse going on in front of you and you already know their pain, suffering and adult life struggle, but can’t make a difference.

How many times you have opened a book but didn’t read it because you are scared of not understanding and having pain in the path of thought processing.This learning anxiety is killing (not literally of course) humans and keeping us from learning even possible things like Math. (Math that you can learn by books and writing thus makes it possible). What happens is you have to stop going to school or stop reading or stop going near learning materials to stop the feeling of pain and suffering. Technically you are forced by your nature to quit studying. And you can’t control hating everyone who asks you about going back to school. That my friend is the curse of Failure anxiety.

We are like the snake and the snake charmer is the idea of force learning. Then Failure Anxiety is stopping us from learning.

Biological Learning Anxiety:-
People just can’t do whatever they want. There isn’t free will. People do only what their mind is focused on. What their mind like, they like that. If I PTSD you in my way, you are gonna do what I want. Even though you want to do else, learning information that’s unknown becomes too much to handle. Cause facing unknown is a biological PTSD trigger.
The problem of confirmation bias and positive skippism:- Confirmation bias means people learns only what they are trying to learn. Unrelated information gets skipped. If you teach that doesn’t fall into the category of what the mind wants, you get skipped. So, learning something extra takes some more toxic anxiety to handle. Which you should avoid by all means.

Lecture on topics that is related. Look, lecturing is absolutely necessary. If there isn’t new information, the brain gets lazy. There is very little progress on learning. But one lecture you had given based on your 25 years of experience takes a lot of time to digest for another brain. If you have inspired some, give them the time to understand the concept.

If you give people awesome information that they don’t relate to, most likely they will find it boring. If the information doesn’t turn on their inner-selves and shock/spark them, they will find it boring and can’t find it interesting to process and can’t remember at all. So, instead of giving a lot of information you just turn on their basic bias and feed it and then use your information as a punchline. That’s not manipulation. That’s the only way it works.

Seen the ads and marketing campaigns and government campaigns? How do they work like a charm? They change society. Why

1. They pick the bias of their target audience
2. They say something to turn them on
3. Create a problem they can relate to
4. Use a solution(your product) as a punchline.

Ever wondered why the cinema dialogues of a protagonist are always punchy? That’s super unrealistic and people will hate you for that in reality. But when it comes to someone better and respectable, people always expect them to say something in their favor with a punchline.

This same rule you have to follow when it comes to teaching. One of your words will change them forever.
Different types of learning style:-

Stating Problems of different learning style using learning terms
Problems with school
Lecture creates illusion of learning and creates unfinished learning threads. Lecture is inspiration. It’s not teaching.

Terming Topics:- Any topics that can be described or explained in the same way as learning terms. People should contribute by adding every term they face. If certain terms are highly voted on, will get into basic terms. Others will be in personal terms. For example English Language Learning Terms.
