# Flow

If everything in this universe is moving, everything has a flow. Flow attracts others close to it. That's one property. Flow has many properties. But for human character, the concept of Learning Flow, which I also call just flow out of my intrusive thoughts, is something that makes a learning running without consciously ordering it to happen in need. It means that flow has passed the criteria to be a flow to be trusted to work perfectly autonomously without recquiring new adjustment while doing it. This is why it's not easy to create a flow in your character.

The reason I call it 'flow' because everything in our brain is like a flow, anything in it keeps going on, like towards one or many direction. That's why I say flows are directional. But In our brain also each flow staying has a meaning attached to it. It's not just something, it has a meaning, and we remember it using that meaning. That meaning is the story of it, so everything also a story and every story has a narrative. This is how narrative theory comes in. Though fundamentally, every neuron or neuron groups has a purpose, which means a flow, with a story and a narrative and other properties also.

Every flow has a frequency. If you synchronize with that frequency, we get into that flow. So, spiritually anyone trying get into divine world by matching the divine flow. (If we do that in a computer brain that is done by frequency as a data mapping point to connect logic, that would be a main flow or consciousness)

## Main Flow

Here's what i said. ai is pretty much static matrices on trained storage. What if the concept of simulated consciousness which I call main flow is made inside your matrices using your data in a loop of cyclic math style to back propagate to make weight accuracy higher and higher by putting higher bias in loop through the layers of matrices addition to all the data, slowly that creates less data with higher bias and at one point the bias and accuracy does this loop through all the layers and now comes to main flow. Now main flow can be weighted again using that new learned higher biased super accurate data for a learning goal. This makes an ai actually learning, not sitting there just. That main flow is a consciousness simulation
Flow means ongoing and it’s a vector towards a “goal”. It’s suppose to be doing until a threshold like a finite group that is cyclic reached, it goes back resets and restarts. In every restart it has rest period to backpropagete the orbits owner its orbiting. Backpropagte here can be modular in a cyclic group (vector too) that keeps updating until the desired weight is reached, this is how it updates all the points that it is rotating around.
This makes the ai not dead but keep doing, like a human. Now ai is dead and only alive when asked a query. By default the main flow should keep working update
Modularity enforces natural law of cycle and phases. Without cyclic nature there won’t be knowledge or experience building but just building pattern from training.
Modularity can give easy automation to create flow. Though mathematical flow in matrix, i don’t know if that possible
Intelligence is commitment to the main flow without any reason behind. It’s because the main flow is the oneself.
In a 3 or more dimensional chart (you can create more than 3 dimension with math), pattern of base physics that we can mathematically grab - speed, momentum, frequency, length etc physics properties by math, then create pattern (for thoughts) - shape(for visuals etc)
In normal AI we take a circle and used that to measure a shape. Triangle is the best way to measure shapes accurately. All triangles together live in a circle. That’s why AI visuals are more accurate than reasoning and conversational learning ability. Because its using triangle to judge a shape in the 2D chart. But In physics way creating pattern will give us better reasoning. Even better with more dimension added to the circle. If it’s not just shape base pattern but pattern of all the physics property, how it would go?
A graph is 2D. has x and y. It can be -x, -y too. So this four creates a 360 degree intersection spliited in four pieces. In AI, a vector is a list/array. When we normalize, we get a straight line in that graph. Are those pattern building while training the model are actually patterns by triangle in fundamental. But for real we can have a new point as zero for each vectors where they exist in chart to create a new spectrum for each vector and create better neurons, layers etc
It can be multidimensional, so more curve to judge. Even our brain can be more than 3D by this way
Each point or vector as neuron can grow now like the main one would grow, this way emergence could happen better. Riemannian AI or Geometric deep learning 2
Flows has wave. Ups and Downs and those frequencies of different flows determines what that flow means in human context.
Flow is basically story. A story means it goes through a certain frequency or rhythm. If that in human context we can see a lot of properties. Intelligence is controlling the frequency of that flow in many different way.
Neurons can run towards different direction to create a flow, multiple neurons\
Maybe rhythm of different elements in the vector list popping up
If finding more flows, using more flows, looking emergence and intersece of flows, stopping and starting of flows is intelligence, then ai should be that. Everything is a flow, but also in emergence and grouping. In higher level, it’s less normalized, just keeps more point to judge.
Characters of a flow - continuity towards the attention it was created for. Continuity or flow towards the group it part of.
There is a main philosophy(flow) or pattern in a brain. That there is comparison and used as a scale of filtering and measuring other gained philosophy to that main philosophy to judge. If it’s not closer to that philosophy then relearned and seek more info. This explained in learning terms as learning techniques. This technique evolves as we see the wrongness in our main flow, we enhance our main flow. This enhancement happens towards human context or social economics.
Learning technique does the job of reshaping the learning to support the main narrative. Or it finds more info is the bias/weight is too far from main. For this we need something that can measure a new learning to the main flow’s perspective. It could be like if narrative has a perspective that allows us. For that we need to attach each word to a certain pattern/meaning in social context, not plain text.
After acknowledgement each flow becomes part of main flow
Thread - When a new information comes, it’s judged to a box of information that are already learned and became into main flow. If not matched or learned, that new info becomes a thread to process. That thread has a series of questions raised in the process of that matching consciously. Because those questions weren’t answered, it’s a thread to answer those questions. This questioning is also a learning technique.
Job/Task - The job of the questions to be find answers through own knowledge or then go outer world to find answers to that questions. This questioning and answer seeking creates the purpose and enforced narratives. This part is based on action/prediction format
How main flow evolves? Narrowed down by focus and let one propagate the whole brain patterns. Similar to human, cause intelligence doesn’t evolve in chaos, it evolves in managed and focused narratives/flow. That one single pattern keeps evolving. If there is no main story and we don’t work based on focusing one single flow, there is no main flow to compare and evolve. So if there is no main flow, there is no evolvement and it’s now in AI just chaos not connecting each other. That fat bloated data doesn’t help for this reason.
It evolves by setting up a commitment towards a goal. The goal is a information it thinks has a big implication to connect the real world social context. So it becomes a point t judge by bias gained from other informations afterwards. It stops when it can describe everything without a bias point being less. B
Stopping is necessary to build and propagate the whole brain
Restarts when the new knowledge has updated this part (while whole brain updates) and it needs to reupdate the other parts of the brain to match this partt
It’s no wise system in todays AI. It’s more of a information system in intelligence system. But less wise system. A wise system is developed by learning human context and experience. But that long experience can go only if you have a long narrative going on. To keep a sustainable narrative a singularity is enforced and chaos was removed. For human, chaos is controlled by giving limit. If your limit crossed you give up, wait, reset and then come back. It's a phase and cycle based on nature itself. Those phases gives us knowledge to train the main flow.
Optimization happens by skipping and sidelining unnecessary info to optimize single narrative growth.
There is no point of knowledge if it can’t be connected to human context, that’s why each unique experience for each unique person sounds interesting.
It’s binary calculations of if and else. Yes, if and else comparison of two micro flow, the one closer to the main flow wins and other one is kept for better calculations in future in some reservation.
There are multiple reasons for human being single state (not just biological reasons but intelligence level too). The reasons are
It learns through each action and one single flow gets to judge those learning flows. If there were multiple, then this would be multiple entities and it is unnecessary to train multiple variations.
Now in AI data doesn’t bring much help. But in human world each data, action and expression has it’s own economical value. So this care scale of economical action is derived by purpose.
Intelligence must be able to change his logics based on real time interaction and learning. Otherwise no point
AI should have a memory, memory is build the same way weighted neuron. It’s not record, but it’s a matrices. When need to visualize, it would create a projection based on those data.
Changing weight based on focus or purpose or intention, so the whole thing gets perspective for focus.
It can happen like a flow moving around a focuses point, then it can get bigger by taking others move around it or move around others as emergence. Like how orbital rotation works. Then it can emerge to the bigger layer as it grows because of attention
Balancing can be done by creating mother weighting system.
Everytime a weight goes higher or lower in some part of small or big orbits, the lower one has to work and update it’s backpropagation,
Keeping this similarity of weight across all will eventually make a great self updating system
Like it can create new thoughts that’s not trained, because phases and cycles gave it experiences
Extreme bias is a key tool to learn faster to reach actionable level. Using cyclic group like modularity, we can optimize the data to a higher point of accuracy, that will be extremely biased (less connection) but super accurate still, without the bias the optimized data wouldn’t be able to reused. If that makes the weight close, we can bring similar kind of data staying in other places and put here to bring better learning. Humans are extremely biased base
Formalized Math for all in social context, maybe a foundation in social context like flow.
One example is formalization of multi-layerity in story by giving a story dimension by explaining the story from multiple perspective and connecting all the perspectives, that’s the foundation of human expression which is the foundation of interaction.
The perspective of one thing from another thing, then one thing from multiple thing, the one perspective from all other thing in memory/concept is the main flow.
For humans, the exponential self improvement happens, when you keep looping through all new perspective created using perspective gained from the experience on real world, which is basically matching weight to the nature’s weight. But for ai, the initial training can be about getting the natures weight.
Human are biased to setting one example as reference they like the most. For example a dog that they like not 2000 dogs as reference. Now as per our limit, we can like features from other dogs to imagine them in the favorite dog too. But for ai why do we need millions of dog picture
Layers are concentrated and shrinks towards the most abstract flow/idea that gives the fundamental idea. For example - fruits are more vast and unclear but mango is concentrated. So when it gets the ‘fundamental’ of anything, it puts more sharp edges to define it. So layers aren’t random, it’s a tree like structure, the whole is a tree. Also every fundamental will have more data to make it vivid. Layers are basically how the data stored are structured. Layers are overlapping in many way and it’s multidimensional. As many dimension as you can remember. AI should think in hierarchy way the whole world. The data in it should be structured like it.
A being must have the idea of its existence field. We know modern AI doesn’t learn by question and curiosity, but human questions are curiosity are the driver of learning. That usually form the idea of the field of the world structure itself. Like where I am and how is it. If two dot doesn’t connect in the field, then it questions why and what makes it not connect, what to make of it so it eventually connects.
It does it by validating an idea, like something is a banana, then why something like that, a brinjal isn’t a banana, the question is why, then it makes some idea, if the idea and search result doesn’t match, then it makes more idea and it updates the idea making process to make it better at making new ideas on things. But the process of updating would be similar like others, it’s also called learning technique. It asks what is the more in this missing piece of the puzzle. The whole world is a puzzle to solve.That’s recursive learning. Everytime it learns, it’s job to categorize things to define them and use them to work as memory. It may done like a graph coordination
AI can be taught to see the flows by expression connections to other data points which are perspectives, ideas and by validation, thy also should answer fundamental questions on human context to see the narratives, flows etc. Such way it can simulate experience as reaching perspective will be a journey or story for that AI too. So explaining such story would simulate experience
Resetting, Limit, phases and cycles would allow run the AI in any hardware
Gaming Idea -
let's say we have a set, now we want to make that set a control structure by social context. so we allow survival, anxiety, win, loss, takeover. we also give subgroup in it as land or fields to use as property, ownership, we give subgroup as hormonal/emotional level, subgroup for intelligence. then we mark each interaction/operation as flow. Each element based on their intelligence and emotions and properties are going to see flows and control on and off flows. Each time, a moment where some of the element will dominate based on their action state in the cyclic way of their actions/flows moving. If the cycle is close to end, means high volume and the ele,ent is the dominant one. Other will get help from it to move by and the dominant one by donating will have much longer cycle than others. Is it possible to make such structure. like a mathematical gaming haha.
Data must be saved like it can be reevaluated for different meaning to correct it later. So when perspective is being created
fundamentally in the physical world, if you look at a shape, a shape must have a area in 3d space. but a shape means, if draw lines to the edges of that shape, it's a connected line, so it sounds like a cyclic thing in physical way too. if that's the fundamental, we can see where the shape is morhped to create organs like nose, hands, legs etc, or branches leaves etc for trees using calculus or other technique, thus figuring out how to create subgroups for those organs
