A perspective is a system, a perspectie is a story. A logic isn't valid outside of that perspective

Multipurperspective- a lot of perspective to understand a topic for a Goal until you are confused. This is Learning confusion. There in app - Goal(people can create goal and all are available for others)- since a goal(mini, micro, big, huge goals) is Topics,

Perspective comes from experiencing something. Which means perspective is a real-world learning. There is learning that can't have a real-world association. It's genuine thought.
Giving perspective to words and connecting them together with your perspective is your knowledge or thought engineering. We want everyone to be a thought engineers.
Our brain is an idea generator, you give it some ideas and some perspective, it will connect the dots and generate a new idea. Like a engineer, takes what’s in the world and makes things out of it.
The SUccess talker/Motivation talker paradox - An example - You asked a famous sports person, “ how to win like you?”, - he says, when you are playing, think about winning/losing doesn’t matter at all. Now, doesn’t he himself think about winning and losing while playing at all? Like you and me, he also once was thinking winning and losing but now he doesn’t think about it cause it’s in his character now. He can now don’t need to think about it. So he can now focus on other important matters instead. Like chilling while playing. But when he talks his character shows a perspective that includes thinking about winning and losing. he implies about thinkin' and losing while talking. But he talks against it. Not just that, a character includes many more learning to create a perspective. When it’s in character he doesn’t need to focus on it. So, he thinks we shouldn’t also think about it
Getting the definition of topics or explanation of topics from the perspective of learners so important. Otherwise, learners can’t connect to the logic

Learning perspective:- Perspective is the point of view. You look at something from certain point where there is infinite points. In learning, when you learn something, that learning, has a Characteristic or Learning Shape. You shape a learning by the perspective you use to learn it. You can learn a thing, but if you haven’t learned enough, means your brain isn’t trained to learn from the intended perspective. Learning intention is our brain’s intention to shape a learning from a perspective. Since our brain is week handling conscious thread, many of us hasn’t evolved much in this thus many can’t use their learning to shape from a intended perspective. Thus some people may appear dumb, but actually not. Deep down it’s the same pattern matching brain that needs to be train.
You may something that’s from a perspective that has not much connection to real world
May learn something in past from a perspective. Reshape that’s in future from a different intended perspective by revisiting as detailed as possible
